                                



              				Java Assignment: 1


1. What is Java?
Ans- Java is high level, Object-oriented programming language which is used to build applications.



2. Is Java platform dependent or independent?
Ans- Java is a Platform independent language.



3. What is JVM?
Ans- JVM is a Java Virtual Machine which is used to run a java bytecode on any system.



4. What is JDK and JRE?
Ans- JDK is a Java Development Kit which includes JRE and Development tools.
     JRE is Java Runtime environment which means JVM and libraries.



5. Why is Java called “Write Once, Run Anywhere”?
Ans- We can run Java code on any system with the help of JVM and because of that Java called "Write Once,            
     Run Anywhere.



6. What is a class in Java?
Ans- Class is a blueprint or template which is use to create objects.



7. What is an object?
Ans- Object is an instance of a class.



8. What is the main method in Java?
Ans- main method is an entry point of java program.
     Public static void main(String[] args)



9. What is the use of System.out.println()?
Ans- It is used to prints output to console.



11. What are data types in Java?
Ans- int, float, char, these are the data types in java.



12. Give examples of primitive data types.
Ans- Primitive data types- int, float, double, byte, short, long, char, boolean.



13. What is a variable?
Ans- variable is a container which is used to stored data.



14. How do you declare a variable in Java?
Ans- Declaration- int a = 5;



15. What is the difference between int and float?
Ans- int- stores whole numbers only (int a = 10;)
     Float- stores numbers with decimal points (float b = 10.5;)



16. What is type casting?
Ans- converting one data type into another is called type casting.



17. What is the default value of int?
Ans- Default value of int is 0.



18. What is a keyword in Java?
Ans- Keyword is a reserved word in java(e.g., int, class)



19. Can we use reserved keywords as variable names?
Ans- No. We can't use reserved keywords as variable.



20. What is the difference between = and ==?
Ans- = means assignment
     == means comparison



21. What is an if statement?
Ans- if statement is called as Decision-making statement.



22. Difference between if and switch?
Ans- if statement- Can handle any condition (>, <, &&) and good for complex conditions.
     Switch statement- Works with specific values only and good for multiple fixed choices.



23. What is a loop?
Ans- A loop is programming concept used to repeat set of instructions multiple times until a certain
     condition is met.


24. Types of loops in Java?
Ans-Types of loops-
    1. For loop
    2. While loop
    3. Do-While loop



25. Difference between for loop and while loop?
Ans- Usage- For loop is used when the number of iterations is known
            While loop is used when the number of iterations is unknown.    
     Control variable- Usually declared inside for loop
 		       Usually declared outside while loop.




26. What is break statement?
Ans- break stops the execution of a loop before it finishes normally.




27. What is continue statement?
Ans- The continue statement in Java is used to skip the current iteration of a loop and move to the next iteration.




28. What will happen if we don’t write the main method?
Ans- The program will compile successfully, but it will not run.



29. Can we run a Java program without class?
Ans- No, Java is a class-based language. We can't run a java program without class.



30. What happens if we don’t compile a Java program?
Ans- The program cannot be executed.



31. Can a variable change its data type?
Ans- No. Once a variable is declared, its data type cannot change.



32. What is the size of int in Java?
Ans- The size of int = 4 bytes (32 bits)



33. Why Java does not support pointers directly?
Ans- 1.for Security(prevents direct memory access)
     2.Simplicity (easier to learn and use)
     3.Avoids errors like memory corruption.







 
























